Title: Welcome to The Drawing Board!
Author: Naji Esiri
Position: Community Manager
Date: 27 Apr 2017





It’s always a pleasure to welcome familiar friendly faces through our door for each month’s Open Office event. It’s equally great to see so many new Monzo users drop by to say hi and meet us and the wider community. As we grow, the Monzo community will inevitably become more diverse, and it’s important we reflect this with a varied programme of community led events.
The move to our new HQ represents how far we’ve come in such a short space of time, something which just wouldn’t have been possible without the support of our customers. It felt right to dedicate a space in our new office to the community; a place to host events, share experiences and learn from those with similar interests. That space is The Drawing Board, a meeting room in our new office which we hope will become a launchpad for amazing projects chosen and organised in partnership with you - our community. Almost two years in, the foundations have been set to adopt a truly collaborative approach to community here at Monzo.
Whether you’re interested in attending or hosting, we want to hear ideas on events you’d love to to see at The Drawing Board in coming months. We’re looking for ideas which make the Monzo community an inspiring place to be!
Maybe you’re looking for space to host a hackathon and demo skills you think our super talented developer community could learn from and build on?
Maybe you’re passionate about promoting inclusion through education in tech, and you’re looking for a focus group of community members to share their experiences?
Maybe you’d like to host an event for the Monzo team, to teach us something new, or offer a new perspective on a problem you think we can solve?
If this sounds like something you’d like to be involved with, discuss your ideas with the wider community on the forum, or take a few minutes to fill out this form with some details of what you have in mind. We’ll take a look, and if it’s a good fit, we’ll be in touch to see how we can make it happen! The possibilities are endless, and it’s worth remembering there are also two amazing events spaces, and a spot on our monthly newsletter at your disposal too.



The Drawing Board is just the beginning. We have a growing community of users outside London and we’re committed to creating unique and relevant experiences in cities across the UK with their guidance in coming months. When it comes to hiring, we believe that geographical location should never be a barrier to connecting with great people. Our approach to community should be no different.
Wherever you are in the country, get involved! As always please feel free to contact me with any questions you might have.
On a final note, a huge thanks to Daniel Warriner, the community member who chose the name of the community room. You need to pay us a visit to cut the ribbon officially very soon!
