Title: Invest in Mondo
Author: Tom Blomfield
Position: Monzo CEO
Date: 15 Feb 2016





We started Mondo one year ago this month with the aim of building a better bank.
I’m incredibly proud of what’s been achieved so far; we’ve built and launched an “Alpha” version of our app that’s been used to pay in over 50 countries by a thousand of our early Alpha users. Another 30,000 people are on the waiting list, eager to help us test and improve Mondo.
We’ve submitted thousands of pages of documentation in support of our banking application, and we hope to have our full UK banking licence later this year.
Early on, we decided that openness and transparency was the only way to ensure that Mondo was solving real problems. From commenting on designs, submitting bug reports, to suggesting new features, our early Alpha users have helped us shape Mondo as it’s grown and we’re enormously grateful for their help.
Now it’s your chance to get involved and help to build the kind of bank that you’d be proud to call your own.
We’re raising funding to launch publicly, and we’ve had a number of offers from large international investors. However, it’s important to us that our customers have a chance to own part of Mondo. We’ve reserved £1m for crowdfunding investment in this round, and we’re also planning to include a crowdfunding element in future funding rounds.
The investment will open to the public on Tuesday 1st March on Crowdcube.com. If you pre-register your email now, you’ll get exclusive access to the investment the day before, on the morning of Monday 29th February.
You can invest as little as £10, but we’ve capped investment at £1000 per person to give everyone a fair shot.
Along with owning shares in the bank, investors will get an exclusive “Mondo Investor” Mastercard® Prepaid Debit card, and access to the iPhone app, skipping the 30,000 waiting list. If you’re already on the list for a card, don’t despair! More cards are coming soon :-)

Pre-Register Now

Investments of this nature carry risks to your capital. Please #InvestAware.
Approved as a financial promotion by Crowdcube Capital which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (no. 650205).

We recently updated our name to Monzo! Read more about it here.
