Title: How do I add money to my Monzo account?
Author: Beatrice Borbon
Position: Content Manager
Date: 8 Jun 2018


Before you can start using Monzo to spend, save and budget better, you’ll need to add some money to your account!
Make a bank transfer
If you want to move money from another bank account to Monzo, just make a bank transfer from your other account to your Monzo account.
You’ll need your Monzo account number and sort code, which you can find in the Account tab of your Monzo app.



Set up a standing order
To add money to your Monzo account on a regular basis, just set up a standing order from your other bank account.
You’ll need your Monzo account number and sort code to do this too.
Setting up a standing order means you don’t need to remember to add money to your account, or go through the admin of making a bank transfer each time. It can also be useful for budgeting. Why not try giving yourself a set amount to spend and sending it to your Monzo account at the start of each month?
Get your salary paid straight in
To start getting your salary paid straight into Monzo, you can either

Share your Monzo account number and sort code with the people who pay you, or

Switch to Monzo through the Current Account Switch Service and move everything over, including your salary

Using Monzo as your main account means you can use Summary to track your spending from payday to payday. We’ll help you understand how much of your money goes to committed spending, like bills, rent or mortgage payments, and how much you have left to spend everything else.
Pay in cash
You can pay cash into your Monzo account at any of the 28,000 stores around the UK that show the PayPoint logo.




Go to any shop that displays the PayPoint logo (you might be more familiar with their previous logo, and you can use this handy tool to help you find your nearest store)
Give your Monzo card and your cash to the shopkeeper, who’ll use their PayPoint machine to start making the deposit
They’ll give you back your card with a receipt, and we’ll send you a notification immediately to confirm you’ve made a deposit
You’ll see the money in your account 10 minutes later, once PayPoint have checked everything’s okay with the deposit

PayPoint charges us for every deposit you make, so to help us offer cash deposits in a sustainable way, we pass on some of these costs to you.
We’ll charge you £1 for each deposit you make, and we’ll take the fee out of the money you pay in. So, if you hand £300 over to the shopkeeper, we’ll put £299 in your account.
You can deposit between £5-300 in one go. And you can pay in a maximum of £1,000 every six months. If you’re 16-17 years old, that limit is lower, so you can only deposit a maximum of £500 every six months.
These limits help reduce the risk that people will use cash deposits for financial crime, while still making sure they’re useful to most people.

New to Monzo? Find out more about us on the blog, and head to the Simple Questions Thread on the community forum to ask us anything you like!


    Don't use Monzo yet? Signing up takes 5 minutes.
    

        Download Monzo
    

