Title: ​​Getting a bank account with no fixed address
Author: Tristan Thomas
Position: Head of Marketing and Community
Date: 1 Jun 2018


If you don’t have a fixed address, getting a bank account can be tricky. Because traditional banks usually ask you to provide proof of address, like a council tax or bank statement.
We’ve tried to make it simple to get a bank account with Monzo, even if you don’t have a permanent address.





Download the Monzo app on iOS or Android and start signing up.

You’ll need some form of ID to hand — that could be:
    
a passport
a driving licence (provisional or full)
a government issued photo ID (from the UK or abroad)


During signup we’ll ask you for an address. If you don’t have a permanent address then you can use another address that you have access to, like:
    
Your work address
Your parents’ address
A friend’s address (if you have their permission!)
A local organisation that will let you use their address (like a church, shelter or charity)
If you’re not staying at your permanent address at the moment, then still enter your permanent address. You’ll be able to get your card delivered to a different address later


Finish signup and your debit card will arrive at your delivery address within a day or two! Once it arrives, just activate the card to start using your Monzo bank account

If you don’t have access to any address at all, we can’t currently get you a Monzo account — which we know isn’t good enough. We’re working hard to find a way to get you an account even without an address and will update this post as soon as we do that.
If you’re in this position or helping someone in this position and have any questions, get in touch with us at [email protected]. We’re here to help 🙂

We’ve outlined ways we’re trying to help people traditionally excluded from financial services get access to bank accounts, as easily and quickly as possible. That’s bank accounts for immigrants, bank accounts for refugees and bank accounts for people who live on boats.
