Title: How to protect yourself against APP fraud
Author: Mikey Morton
Position: Financial Crime Analyst
Date: 23 May 2019


Authorised push payment (APP) fraud is where someone tricks you into sending them money from your bank account.
The two main ways this usually happens are:


Social engineering, where a fraudster manipulates you into sending them money by tricking or coercing you, like pretending to call from your bank and asking you to move money to a “safe account” that really belongs to them.


Advance fee fraud, which is when you make a payment by bank transfer for something like gig tickets or second hand goods. But the items never arrive, the seller blocks you, and you never get your money back.


When you make a bank transfer to a fraudster’s account it’s like paying with cash. It’s very difficult for us to get your money back as they’ll usually move the money out of the account you sent it to as soon as they get it.
How you can protect yourself
Here are some important tips to help you avoid falling victim to a scam like this:
Question who you’re talking to. Remember that fraudsters may know basic details about you, and can fake phone numbers, names and email addresses.
If someone claiming to be from your bank contacts you out of the blue, hang up the phone and get in touch with them directly using known contact details (you can usually find a bank’s contact details on the back of your debit/credit card).
Take your time. Fraudsters will often try to scare you into sending money or revealing details, by saying that your account is under threat or they’ll involve the police if you don’t comply.
An organisation you trust will never try to panic you, stop you from talking to friends or family, or force you into making a bank transfer on the spot.
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Fraudsters will attempt to lure you into buying non-existent or counterfeit products by selling them on platforms like Facebook Marketplace, and Gumtree for a significantly reduced price.
Have the confidence to say no. Listen to your gut instincts and leave the conversation if something feels off.
A trustworthy person shouldn’t make you feel embarrassed or guilty.
If you have any doubts at all, it’s always better to double check than go along with it. Because once your money’s gone, it’s often incredibly difficult to get it back.

