Title: £12 Million Later: Our Crowdfunding Pre-Registration is Closed
Author: Tristan Thomas
Position: Product Manager
Date: 14 Mar 2017





Wow! We can’t believe that over £12 million has been pledged for our crowdfunding round. Thank you so much to everyone who pre-registered and pledged — it means so much to all of us here. In total, 41,267 people pledged £12,066,480 over the two weeks, nearly 5x the £2.5 million we were aiming for and blowing our expectations out of the water.
Pre-registration is now closed. All pre-registrants should receive a confirmation email very soon which will explain what happens next.



What happens next?
In the next few minutes, we’ll run the random ballot to choose the lucky investors. You can follow the progress of that on Twitter.
Once the ballot is complete, Crowdcube will begin contacting the winners by email and giving them access to our pitch page so they can invest. After those emails have been sent, the winners will  have 48 hours to complete their investments, failing which, their places will be given to other people from the ballot who will have the same chance to invest. The emails will go out slowly over the coming days so don’t panic if you don’t receive anything immediately! Once the round has been filled and there are no more spaces, we’ll email everyone who wasn’t picked to let them know, which means until you see that email you’re still in the running. We hope to contact everyone within the next two weeks.
Thank you
Thank you again to everyone who pre-registered. With the money from this campaign and the recent investment round from Thrive, Passion and Orange, we’re incredibly excited to kickstart the next stage of our journey with Monzo 2.0 — a full current account. Look out for more news on that over the coming months. We also don’t want this to be our last crowdfunding campaign and hope to do more in the future with you, our community.
If you have any questions, please let us know! We’re on Twitter, our forum and through in-app chat — and if you have any specific questions for Crowdcube, you can contact them through their support page.
