Title: Providing customer support from Las Vegas! 🇺🇸
Author: Dillon Van Auken
Position: Vegas Project Lead
Date: 11 Dec 2018


More than one million people are now using Monzo! And as we grow, we’re committed to giving all our customers world-class support, 24/7/365.
During the day, people in our offices in London and Cardiff provide our customer support. And in the late evenings and early mornings, people usually work remotely, mostly from across the UK and Europe.
Working unusual hours can come with benefits, but we know it doesn’t suit everyone. So we wanted to find a sustainable way to support our customers around the clock.
That’s why over the last few months we’ve been working with a partner to trial an office in Las Vegas. The time difference makes Las Vegas perfect for supporting UK customers in the evening. And with its strong customer service culture and low cost of living, it seemed like a natural fit.
We’re pleased to say trial’s been a real success, so we’ve decided to open our own office there next year!



Our trial’s worked well
Through our partner, we’ve hired a small team, who’ve been working to support our customers in the UK in the evenings and early mornings.
If you’ve reached out to us through in-app chat in the past few months, you might have spoken to one of the team in Vegas!
Working with a partner’s helped us get things off the ground quickly and test whether an office in America could work for us. People from our UK offices have spent lots of time there, training the team and translating our company culture to the States.
Although they’re on the other side of the Atlantic, the team in Vegas have hit the ground running! They’ve integrated well with our culture and perform on a par with our other customer support staff.
So we’re opening our own office in Las Vegas
We’ve successfully set up a US company, which means we can hire customer support staff in the US ourselves and give them the same benefits people get when they work for Monzo in the UK.
We’re pleased to say that everyone’s signed their contracts and will become official Monzo employees on the 14th January!
We’re hiring!
We’re looking for new people to join our team in Las Vegas!
We’ll be growing our new office quickly, to help us keep up as even more people start using Monzo. If you live in Las Vegas, apply today! Or if you know someone who does, share our job ad with them.
